.\" (C) 2023, NGINX, Inc.
.\"
.TH nxt_unit_response_write 3 (date) "NGINX Unit (unreleased)"
.SH Name
nxt_unit_response_write
\-
write content of a response in Unit app
.SH Library
NGINX Unit library
.RI ( libunit ", " -lunit )
.SH Synopsis
.nf
.B #include <nxt_unit.h>
.PP
.BI "int nxt_unit_response_write(nxt_unit_request_info_t *" req ,
.BI "                            const void " content [. size "], uint32_t " size );
.fi
.SH Arguments
.TP
.I req
Request object.
.TP
.I content
Content of the response.
It's a buffer of
.I size
bytes.
.SH Description
.MR nxt_unit_response_buf_alloc 3
allocates a buffer for a response to a request,
or for a chunk of it.
.PP
.MR nxt_unit_buf_send 3
sends and deallocates the buffer previously allocated with
.MR nxt_unit_response_buf_alloc 3 .
.SH Return value
.TP
.MR nxt_unit_response_buf_alloc 3
A pointer to the allocated buffer on success,
or NULL on error.
.TP
.MR nxt_unit_buf_send 3
0 on success,
or a non-zero error code on error.
.SH Errors
Errors will be reported in the Unit debug log.
.TP
.B NXT_UNIT_ERROR
.RS
.PD 0
.IP \[bu] 3
.I size
was too big.
.IP \[bu]
Allocation failed.
.IP \[bu]
Failed to share the buffer with
.MR unitd 8 .
.PD
.RE
.SH Examples
See
.MR nxt_unit_response_buf_alloc 3 .
.SH Copyright
(C) 2017-2023, NGINX, Inc.
.PP
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.SH See also
.MR nxt_unit_init 3 ,
.MR nxt_unit_response_init 3 ,
.MR nxt_unit_response_write 3 ,
.MR unitd 8
.PP
.UR https://unit.nginx.org
Website
.UE
.PP
.UR https://mailman.nginx.org/mailman/listinfo/unit
Mailing list
.UE
.PP
.UR https://github.com/nginx/unit
GitHub
.UE
